Add lightning log message explanation doc (#11930)
pingcap/docs: tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-log-message-explanation.md

---
title: TiDB Lightning Log Message Explanation
summary: Provide detailed explanation of log messages generated during the importing process using TiDB Lightning.
---

> # Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# TiDB Lightning Log Message Explanation
```

> Based on a successful test data import, this document explains log messages of **v5.4 TiDB Lightning** with **Local Backend mode**, and dive deep to understand where the log comes from and what it actually represents. Users of TiDB Lightning can refer to this doc to have a better understanding of TiDB Lightning logs. We will continue working on other TiDB versions and improving the log messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on a successful test data import, this document explains log messages of **TiDB Lightning v5.4** with **Local Backend mode**, and dives deep to understand where the log comes from and what it actually represents. You can refer to this doc to better understand TiDB Lightning logs.
```

> We expect you are already familiar with TiDB Lightning, and read through the high level Lightning workflow doc in the [previous section](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.4/tidb-lightning-overview). You can also refer to [glossary](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.4/tidb-lightning-glossary) when you encounter an unfamiliar concept later in this doc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read this document, you are expected to be already familiar with TiDB Lightning and have prior knowledge of its high-level workflow described in [TiDB Lightning Overview](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md). If you encounter unfamiliar terminology, you can refer to the [glossary](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md).
```

> You could use this doc to quickly navigate within Lightning source code to better understand how it works internally and what exactly the log message means for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could use this doc to quickly navigate within TiDB Lightning source code and better understand how it works internally and what exactly the log message means.
```

Note that some trivial logs are ignored. Only important logs are included in the following doc.

> ## Log Message Explanation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Log message explanation 

```

```
[INFO] [info.go:49] ["Welcome to TiDB-Lightning"] [release-version=v5.4.0] [git-hash=55f3b24c1c9f506bd652ef1d162283541e428872] [git-branch=HEAD] [go-version=go1.16.6] [utc-build-time="2022-04-21 02:07:55"] [race-enabled=false]
```
[info.go:49](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/version/build/info.go#L49):
Print TiDB Lightning version information.

```
[INFO] [lightning.go:233] [cfg] [cfg="{\"id\":1650510440481957437,\"lightning\":{\"table-concurrency\":6,\"index-concurrency\":2,\"region-concurrency\":8,\"io-concurrency\":5,\"check-requirements\":true,\"meta-schema-name\":\"lightning_metadata\", ...
```
[lightning.go:233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/lightning.go#L233):
Print TiDB Lightning config information.

```
[INFO] [lightning.go:312] ["load data source start"] 
```

> [lightning.go:312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/lightning.go#L312): Start to [scan data source dir or external storage]((https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/mydump/loader.go#L205)) defined in Lightning [mydumper data-source-dir config field](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/config/config.go#L447), and load all data source file meta info into [internal data structure](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/mydump/loader.go#L82) for future usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[lightning.go:312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/lightning.go#L312): Start to [scan data source dir or external storage](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/mydump/loader.go#L205) defined in Lightning [mydumper data-source-dir config field](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/config/config.go#L447), and load all data source file meta info into [internal data structure](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/mydump/loader.go#L82) for future usage.
```

```
[INFO] [pd.go:415] ["pause scheduler successful at beginning"] [name="[balance-region-scheduler,balance-leader-scheduler,balance-hot-region-scheduler]"] 
[INFO] [pd.go:423] ["pause configs successful at beginning"] [cfg="{\"enable-location-replacement\":\"false\",\"leader-schedule-limit\":4,\"max-merge-region-keys\":0,\"max-merge-region-size\":0,\"max-pending-peer-count\":2147483647,\"max-snapshot-count\":40,\"region-schedule-limit\":40}"]
```

[pd.go:415](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/pdutil/pd.go#L415), [pd.go:423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/pdutil/pd.go#L423): In local backend mode, some [pd schedulers](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-scheduling) are disabled and some [config settings are changed](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/pdutil/pd.go#L417) to split and scatter tikv regions and ingest ssts.

```
[INFO] [restore.go:1683] ["switch to import mode"]
```
[restore.go:1683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/lightning/restore/restore.go#L1683):

> In local backend mode, it turns each TiKV node into import mode to speed up import process, but sacrifices its storage space. If it uses tidb backend mode, it does not need to switch TiKV to import mode.

Reviewer 2: maybe we can link to "import mode" in https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-glossary#import-mode

---

# TiDB Lightning Log Message Explanation

Based on a successful test data import, this document explains log messages of **TiDB Lightning v5.4** with **Local Backend mode**, and dives deep to understand where the log comes from and what it actually represents. You can refer to this doc to better understand TiDB Lightning logs.

To read this document, you are expected to be already familiar with TiDB Lightning and have prior knowledge of its high-level workflow described in [TiDB Lightning Overview](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md). If you encounter unfamiliar terminology, you can refer to the [glossary](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md).

You could use this doc to quickly navigate within TiDB Lightning source code and better understand how it works internally and what exactly the log message means.

Note that some trivial logs are ignored. Only important logs are included in the following doc.

## Log message explanation 

```
[INFO] [info.go:49] ["Welcome to TiDB-Lightning"] [release-version=v5.4.0] [git-hash=55f3b24c1c9f506bd652ef1d162283541e428872] [git-branch=HEAD] [go-version=go1.16.6] [utc-build-time="2022-04-21 02:07:55"] [race-enabled=false]
```

> [info.go:49](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/version/build/info.go#L49): Print TiDB Lightning version information.

Reviewer: Can you provide permanent links here? I was told these packages would soon be moved to somewhere else. I'm concerned these links will be broken very soon. [ref](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/v5.4.0/br/pkg/version/build/info.go#L49)
